---
layout: default
title:  "Movie ratings and reviews"
subtitle: DataWarehouse Design and Text Mining
date:   2018-12-11 21:15:05 +0000
img: movie.jpg
sub: Implemented market basket analysis, sentiment analysis and social network analysis to drive insight from the IMDb.com Movie datasets.
thumbnail: imdb.png
alt: image-alt
modal-id: 2
---

#  About the Project
The main goal of this project was to conduct an analysis about the IMDb.com movie dataset to explore the trend behind movie ratings, answer business questions and drive insights from movie reviews.

# Methodology
- Data: IMDb.com movie dataset which includes all possible information of global movies that are produced since the 19th century.
- DataWarehouse Design: Created logical and physical designs and chose Relational OLAP as the implementation model.
- Conduct Exploratory data analysis to the explore the relationship within years, genres and ratings.
- Utilized Association rule mining to figure out the relationship between genres and there might be some genres that often comes together.
- Explored the polarity of movie reviews using text mining and sentiment Analysis
- Used social network analysis find the relationship between personnel in each movies.

# Conclusions
- `Drama`, `Action`, `Adventure` are the most popular movie genres.
- In 2018, there is a huge increase in the number of movies with `biography` or `musical` genres with high rating scores, showing people are more interested in the biography and musical movie genres.
- Considering the relationship between multiple genres, `adventure` and `action` most likely come together. `Romance` is highly associated with comedy. Drama is more flexible that can apply to various genres.
- With regard to the reviews, scores higher than 9 mostly represents positive and that lower than 5 most represents negative.
- `Writers` and `composers` are the most important in the social network analysis which is the key for the high rating scores of a movie.

# Further Details
For more information, check out the Presentation [here](https://github.com/jeanyijinwang/IMDb_Dataset/blob/master/CS753%20Movie%20-%20Team%205.pdf).
